# Cloud_Resume_Challenge_BlogPost


Kevin Ordonez 
Networking and Cloud Computing
Dec 15, 2021

**                                                       My Struggles with the Cloud Resume Challenge
**

This semester my class and I had the difficult task of taking part in the Cloud Resume Challenge. At first, I was extremely nervous; this was something completely foreign to me, as there were lots of components to this challenge, such as using AWS cloud services, transcribing our resume in HTML and even writing this blog post. This post will describe my journey of trial and error, long nights, and small successes along the way. I hope you enjoy it!

My story will follow the steps given in the resume challenge.  For our class, our professor (Professor Lontok) edited the 16 steps, making it a little more manageable for the class. Due to this, our first step was creating the HTML. Surprisingly, this is one of my last steps that I did for the challenge -- I will explain further down the line. I would first like to say that I have done a little HTML before, but honestly the last time I really focused on it was in middle school, so it is not exactly fresh in my head. After seeing Daniel’s finished product, I was interested in how his resume looked, it had a nice offwhite background that made it look clean, new, and formal. Luckily, I was able to google a template that had a similar look and I was able to reverse engineer. From there, I was able to implement my resume information, editing it to make fit well. The second step was creating the CSS; similar to my resume template, I was able to find a template and edit it to fit my liking. 

Before starting to further set up my website using AWS, we first created a domain for my website: kevin-ordonez.com. The following steps were done with the support of my professor and classmates.  The third step was the creation of the Static S3 Website; AWS S3 is a simple storage service that was able to host our static website. In order to create the website, we first need to create an S3 bucket that will not only host objects for the website, but also the website itself. The fourth step was making sure our website is secured through HTTPS. We secured our website using AWS Cloudfront, using this program we were able to make an SSL Certificate that confirms the security of our website. The fifth step was creating a DNS so that our website was capable of being accessed from across the world. Again, we used Cloudfront and AWs Route 53 to create the DNS records in order to connect the website. 

The sixth step was creating the Javascript needed for the visitor count on the resume. This felt quite similar to coding with HTML, so it was not that scary to do. Unfortunately, there was something wrong with the coding that made it not display properly. This is something that has bugged me for some time, so I hope to fix it as soon as possible. The seventh step is creating a database that will count the visitors of the website; for this we used Amazon’s NoSQL database service, Amazon DynamoDB, to create the table that would hold the visitor account. Consecutively, the eight step was creating an API that connected the database with the javascript made from earlier steps. To make this API, we used AWS Lambda, a serverless server that automates this process, additionally we used the API Gateway that directly connects the website to the database.  Once all the hard parts were finished, the only thing that was left was updating the index.html file in my S3 bucket and hope that I have coded correctly and followed directions. To my great surprise, I believe I did a decent job. From my first tests, the resume looks like a resume, and it has that nice background that I wished to replicate.The last few steps include the final touches to the challenge, creating repositories to hold the code and creating this very blog post.

Overall, this was an interesting project and one that I felt I learned a lot from. We touched upon more topics than I could imagine. One of the first aspects was coding, we did multiple different aspects of coding, from HTML, CSS, and Javascript. We also touched the surface of what AWS cloud computing is, and the many tools they have. I am saddened that the “Visitor Count” did not work for me, but I hope as I have more time during my Christmas break, I can finally find a solution for it. In conclusion, this was an interesting experience and I learned a lot; I hope I can take the information I have learned and apply it to any future projects, like my Spring Capstone project! Thank you for reading!
